[This article](https://cointelegraph.com/news/algorand-founder-silvio-micali-wants-to-usher-in-the-democratization-of-finance) is about the cryptocurrency **Algorand** (Algo).  The article calims several social benefits for Algo, including an eco-friendly non-energy-intensive validation system.  But I'm particularly interested in claims by its creator, MIT professor Silvio Micali, that it can democratize finance.

The basis for this claim is the high fees charged for research and consulting, making these services available to large institutional investors.  An example is the high price of Bloomberg terminals (a proprietary software system that provides the user with a rich array of financial information, and the basis  of Michael Bloomberg's fortune).  Micali believes that blockchain, and in particular Algo, makes it possible to offer these services at a fraction of the cost.

The article doesn't provide details for how these services are to be offered, so it's difficult to evaluate these claims. But a major difficulty is with the very premise that offering financial services at a significantly lower cost is sufficient to democratize finance and reverse the concentration of wealth (one of Micali's avowed aims).  The problems are two. First, it's easy to make more money if you already have a lot of it.  One of Thomas Piketty's major observations is that, the rate of return on capital being greater than economic growth (in the long term), it's inevitable that  wealth will concentrate (absent redistributive economic policies).  Second, regardless of the financial cost of services, there are major asymmetries in the amount of education and leisure time people have. Even if financial information were totally free, this would make it much easier for some people to take advantage of such information than otehrs.
